Do you think one day it will be possible to simulate the full
history that took our solar system to what it is today?
Yes. And it will be useless. <laugh> okay.
<Laugh> so you don't think your story,
many of the ideas that you have about Jupiter are clear in the space like
retelling that or in high resolution is not that important.
I actually think it's important, but at every stage you have to,
you have to SIM you have to design your experiments, your,
your numerical computer experiments,
so that they test some specific aspect of that evolution.
Got it. Um,
I am a proponent of doing huge simulations because,
um,
even if we forget the information theory aspect of not being
able, mm-hmm <affirmative> to simulate in full detail the universe,
because if you do, then you,
you have made an actual universe. It's not the simulation,
right by simulation is in some sense,
a compression mm-hmm <affirmative> of information.
So therefore you lose must lose detail, but that point aside,
if we are able to simulate the entire
history of the solar system in excruciating detail, I mean, it'll be cool,
but it's not gonna be any different from observing it. Right.
Right. Because theoretical understanding,
which is what ultimately I'm interested in, um,
comes from taking complex things and reducing them down to something
that, you know,
some mechanism mm-hmm <affirmative> that you can actually quantify fine. Um,
that's the, that's the fun part of astrophysics,
just kind of simulating things in extreme detail is, well, cool.
We'll make cool visualizations,
but that doesn't get to doesn't doesn't get you to any better understanding
than you had before you did the.
Simulation. If you ask very specific questions, then you'll be to, uh,
create like very highly compressed, nice,
beautiful theories about how things evolved.
And then you can use those to then generalize to other solar systems, to, uh,
other stars and other galaxies,
and then say something generalizable about the entire universe.
How difficult would it be to simulate
our solar systems such that we would not know the difference,
meaning if we are living in a simulation,
is there a nice think of it as a video game? Sure.
Is there a nice compressible way of doing that or just kind of like you
intuitive with a three body situation is just a giant mess that you cannot
create a video game that, uh,
will seem realistic without actually building.
It or scratch I'm, you know, I'm speculating, but <laugh> one, one of the,
yeah, I know, I know you, like, you have a deep understanding of this,
about like my, for me, I'm, I'm just gonna like speculate that for, um,
at least in the types of simulations that we can do today,
inevitably you run into the problem of resolution, right?
You are doesn't matter what you're doing. It is discreet now. Um,
the way you would go about asking, you know, what we're observing,
is that a simulation or, uh, or is that, you know,
some real continuous thing, uh, is you, you zoom in, right.
You zoom in and try and find the, you know, the grid scale,
if you will. Yeah. Um, yeah, I mean,
it's a, it's a really interesting, it's a really interesting question.
And because the solar system itself,
and really, you know, the double pendulum is chaotic, right?
Pendulum sitting on another pen,
it moves unpredictably. Once you let them go. Um,
you really don't need to like inject any randomness into a simulation for
it to, to give you stochastic and unpredictable answers.
Whether is a great example of this, whether has a lap enough time of,
you know, typical weather systems have a happen of time of a few days. I mean,
there's a fundamental reason why the for forecast always sucks,
you know, two weeks in advance.
It's not that we don't know the equations that govern
the atmosphere. We know them well, their solutions are meaningless though.
After a few days.
The zooming in thing is very interesting.